---
title: "[GIT] How to interact with remote repository with Git"
categories: [ GIT ]
---

## Preface

You can work on a project without remote repository unless you were in the group. If not, you'll need it. Group members have to share files through somewhere shared place. For that, remote repository, pushing, pulling, branching, and some functions of Git are required.

> Reading my article or not depends on you, but if you want to read super accurate and trustworthy document, take this Git's official document.
> 
> [Official Git Website](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

## Summary

* `$ git remote -v`
  - Lists your remote repositories.
* `$ git remote add [name] [URL]`
  - Add remote repository on Git's configuration file.
* `$ git push origin master`
  - Git pushes local **master** branch to **origin**, remote repository.
* `$ git fetch origin`
  - Git fetches data from remote repository which is **origin** and makes it to new branch called **origin/master**.
* `$ git pull origin`
  - Git fetches data from remote and makes new branch. And automatically merges it with original branch which is **master**.
* `$ git merge [branch name]`
  - Merging branch which is being written to your current branch.

## Let's move on!

### Setting a remote repository for your project

* `$ git remote -v`
  - View your remote repositories. If you command it for the first time after you created the project with `$ git init`, there would be nothing.
  
* `$ git remote add [name] [URL]`
  - Add information of remote repository in Git's configuration file. If you don't mind, just write [name] as 'origin'. The reason is on below.
  - > Naming remote repository as 'origin' is general, because console uses 'origin' as default remote repository when you omit it in `push` or `pull` commands.  
    >
	> If you don't know about those commands, never mind. I will tell you about that on the next part of this article. Skip this, and come back here later.
  - For example, `$ git remote add origin [your Github repository URL]`
  
* `$ git remote -v`
  - Type this command again. Now you can see your remote repository is added.
  - You can also check it in git's configuration file. Command `$ git config --list`.

### What is 'branch'?

* Before using remote repository, you have to know about branch. I won't explain it in detail cause its content is super massive in itself. In this post, therefore, I'll make it as simple as possible. Let's talk about it later in detail. Let's get started!

* Git stores project's status and history as a series of snapshots. We call each snapshot as 'commit'.

* When you command `$ git commit`, Git takes a snapshot and stores them as a tree object in the Git repository. In other words, Git makes an object(commit) and link it to other object which is made before.

* You can run your project on just one track by linking new object to one of the most recent one, but you also can manage project on two or more tracks by ramifying new object from specific track, **which is branching**.

* One project can be managed with many branches, and the default branch among those is called **master** branch.

### Put your project on and Get project from remote repository

* `$ git push origin master`
  - Literally, this command says, "Hey, Git. Push **master** branch's history to remote repository which is **origin**.
  - On your first try, this puts your local project on remote repository. And on tries after that, this updates your remote repository whenever you type.
  
* `$ git pull origin`
  - This causes exactly the reverse case against the former. This updates your local repository with remote one, while `push` updates remote one with local one.
  - Explaining what exactly happens in tree in the Git repository when you call this would confuse you. For now, never mind. I'll explain it below. This command would not make errors unless you work in group.
  
* `$ git fetch origin`
  - This gets data from origin, remote repository. But this does not update your local repository. That is what you have to do.
  
### What happens in my local Git repository?

* I told you that the local Git repository stores snapshots as a tree object. And the tracks consist of several snapshots are called branches.

* The command `pull` and `fetch` make new branch when they are called. That branch ramifies from the last pushed object.

* I said that the difference is on **update**. `$ git fetch origin` command makes new branch called **origin/master**, but it does not merge it with original branch, master branch on local repository. You have to find differences between local and remote repository yourself and merge it personally.

* However, `$ git pull origin` makes new branch and find differences itself. And then merge it with original branch immediately.

* We don't have to find differences by ourselves when we call `pull`. Sounds great! But, sometimes, some problems arise on account of that.

### Work in group using remote repository

* You don't have to worry about integrity of remote repository if you work alone. But there would be some problems when you work in group.

* Suppose that you were working in specific branch(in this example, **origin**) with your group members. You updated your local repository by commanding `$ git pull origin` to modify some codes.

* After that, other group member pushed their project while you were working on your local repository. You edited some codes and that was same part that the member modified.

* You finished your work and tried to push your work on remote repository. But, the Git, eventually, rejected your request. The reason was, Git did not know which code it should choose.

* That is to say, even though you pulled data from remote before you were on changing project, just before you command `push`, you have to update your local repository with remote one by commanding `pull` or `fetch`. And there would be trouble to be solved. How to troubleshoot is explained on below.

### Merging with newly created branch: Fetch

* `$ git merge origin/master`
  - If you don't know about changing branch, maybe you are in **master** branch. And this command merges **origin/master** branch with the branch now you are in, **master**.
  - If there's same trouble just like I said before, there would be a conflict when you command this. Then, the solution is same as troubleshooting of `pull` command's conflict.
  - You can command this if you want to be careful on your project. However, if you are going to merge right after commanding `fetch`, just typing `pull` is recommended.

### Merging with newly created branch: Pull

* `$ git pull origin`
  - If the message after this command shows no problems, there's no need to merge. In fact, it's already being merged. But, if there is conflict, there would be message shows which files have problems.
  -   
		```text
		<<<<<<< HEAD:index.html
		<div id="footer">contact : email.support@github.com</div>
		=======
		<div id="footer">
		 please contact us at support@github.com
		</div>
		>>>>>>> [id]
		```
  - The upper part over '=======' is the content of local repository and the lower part is of remote one. You have to choose either the former or latter.
  
* `$ git commit -m "commit message"`
  - After selecting which you want to choose, `commit` automatically merge new branch with the original branch.
  - Instead of this command, you can command `$ git pull origin` again. The result would be same.
  
### Push again

* You pushed data from remote repository, and finished editing project.

* Just before pushing your edited data to remote, you updated your local repository with remote one which is likely to be changed by other members.

* Completely merged and now you are all ready to push.

* `$ git push origin master`
  - This would make your remote repository exactly same as your local history.

* DONE!

## Reference

* [Official Git Website](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)
* [Basic Git commands frequently being used](https://medium.com/@pks2974/%EC%9E%90%EC%A3%BC-%EC%82%AC%EC%9A%A9%ED%95%98%EB%8A%94-%EA%B8%B0%EC%B4%88-git-%EB%AA%85%EB%A0%B9%EC%96%B4-%EC%A0%95%EB%A6%AC%ED%95%98%EA%B8%B0-533b3689db81)
* [Git introduction, easy to understand](https://backlog.com/git-tutorial/kr/stepup/stepup3_1.html)
























