---
title: "[BOJ] SUGAR - 2839"
categories: [ Algorithm ]
updated: false
comments: true
---

## Problem

Mirko works in a sugar factory as a delivery boy. He has just received an order: he has to deliver exactly N kilograms of sugar to a candy store on the Adriatic coast. Mirko can use two types of packages, the ones that contain 3 kilograms, and the ones with 5 kilograms of sugar.

Mirko would like to take as few packages as possible. For example, if he has to deliver 18 kilograms of sugar, he could use six 3-kilogram packages. But, it would be better to use three 5-kilogram packages, and one 3-kilogram package, resulting in the total of four packages.

Help Mirko by finding the minimum number of packages required to transport exactly N kilograms of sugar.

### Input

The first and only line of input contains one integer N (3 ≤ N ≤ 5000).

### Output

The first and only line of output should contain the minimum number of packages Mirko has to use. If it is impossible to deliver exactly N kilograms, output -1.

## Approach

### How to take fewer packages

* Mirko have to take 3-kilogram packages as few as possible.

* Take 3-kilogram packages until the N kilograms of sugar can be exactly divided by 5-kilogram packages.

### Classification

* Remainder of N divided by 5 is:
  - 0: Only 5-kilo packages.
  - 1: 6-kilo for **two** 3-kilo packages. And the others for 5-kilogram packages.
  - 2: 12-kilo for **four** 4-kilo packages. And the others for 5-kilogram packages.
  - 3: 3-kilo for **one** 3-kilo packages. And the others for 5-kilogram packages.
  - 4: 9-kilo for **three** 3-kilo packages. And the others for 5-kilogram packages.

* Can you see the pattern?
  - HINT: bolded.
  - Given N, remainder of double of the remainder divided by 5 stands for how many 3-kilo packages you need.
  
* Variable
  - `N` is the `N` specified in problem.
  - `x = (2 * (N % 5)) % 5`: `x` means how many 3-kilo packages you need.
  - `N' = N - 3 * x` : `N'` means the number of kilograms that can be divided into exactly 5kg packages.
  
### Exception

* When delivery becomes impossible
  - For example, 7 kilograms of sugar cannot be delivered. Even, only with 3-kilogram packages, impossible.
  - If `N'` is 0, it indicates 5kg packages cannot be used.
  - If `N'` is a negative number, it indicates it is impossible to deliver exact N-kilogram of sugar.

## My Source

```cpp
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main(){
    cin.tie(NULL);
    ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
    
    int N, x;
    cin >> N;
    x = (2 * (N % 5)) % 5;
    N -= 3 * x;
    if(N < 0) cout << -1;
    else cout << N / 5 + x;
    return 0;
}
```

## Reference

[Baekjoon Online Judge - SUGAR - 2839](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/2839)