---
title: "[BOJ] SNAIL - 2869"
categories: [ Algorithm ]
updated: false
comments: true
---

## Problem

There is a snail on the ground. It wants to climb to the top of a wooden pole with the height of V meters, measuring from the ground level. In one day it can climb A meters upwards, however during each night it sleeps, sliding B meters back down. Determine the number of days it needs to climb to the top. 

### Input

The first and only line of input contains three integers separated by a single space: A, B, and V (1 ≤ B < A ≤ V ≤ 1,000,000,000), with meanings described above. 

### Output

The first and only line of output must contain the number of days that the snail needs to reach the top. 

## Approach

### The scope of height that snail can reach in nth day.

* Until (n-1)th day, it could be considered that snail can climb up `A - B` meters per day.
  - That is, the height of the position of nth day morning is `(A - B)(n - 1)`. 

* At the nth day, the maximum distance a snail can travel is A meters.

* But, the minimum distance a snail can travel is not B meters. **Snail had silded B meters back down the day before.**
  - That is, the height a snail can reach in nth day is greater than `(A - B)(n - 1) + B`.
  
* `(A - B)(n - 1) + B` < `V` ≤ `(A - B)(n - 1) + A`
  - And the value `n` must unique.
  
### Manipulate an inequation

* Manipulating the inequation is needed, because I have to find the value `n` when `A`, `B`, and `V` are given.

* Left side of inequation
  - `(A - B)(n - 1) + B` < `V` becomes `n` < `(V - B)/(A - B) + 1`

* Right side of inequation
  - `V` ≤ `(A - B)(n - 1) + A` becomes `(V - A)/(A - B) + 1` ≤ `n`
  
* So, `(V - A)/(A - B) + 1` ≤ `n` < `(V - B)/(A - B) + 1`

### Division in computer

* When the operator `/` is used between integers, it returns quotient of division. So the exact value `n` can be finded as `(V - A)/(A - B) + 2`

* But there's one more problem. If `V` is the exact value of the highest position a snail can reach at nth day, **plus 1** that we added owing to the computational division throws wrong answer.

* It can be solved by adding **minus 0.5** to `V`. The reason is that the input values are **INTEGERS**. That is, changing 0.5 to any value, which is greater than 0 and less than 1, doesn't matter to the answer.

## My Source

```cpp
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main(){
    cin.tie(NULL);
    ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
    
    int a, b, v;
    cin >> a >> b >> v;
    cout << (int)((v - a - 0.5) / (a - b) + 2);
    return 0;
}
```

## Reference

[Baekjoon Online Judge - SNAIL - 2869](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/2869)