---
title: "[C++][STL] What is Standard Template Library"
categories: [ C++ ]
updated: false
comments: true
---

## Preface

There's a lot of data structures that save your time and computer memories. As an example, there are **Stack, List, Map, and so on...** When you find an appropriate structures that fit on your problem, you don't have to worry about embodying it from beginning to end. There's a super nice C++ library already equipped with those structures: Standard Template Library(STL).

> This content is from [Wikipedia - Standard Template Library](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Template_Library). And I would not explain in detail about each elements it has, but just listing them. Also, I would not explain all elements. Whenever I study some classes, such as vectors, maps, I will link that post on this article.

## About Standard Template Library

### Standard Template Library

* The Standard Template Library(STL) is a software library for the C++ programming language that influenced many parts of the C++ Standard Library.

* It provides four components called *algorithms, containers, functions, and iterators*.

* The STL provides a set of common classes for C++ that can be used with any built-in type and with any user-defined type that supports some elementary operations.

* STL algorithms are independent of containers, which significantly reduces the complexity of the library.

## Classes provided by STL

### Containers - Simple containers

* Pair
  - The pair container is a simple associative container consisting of a 2-tuple of data elements or objects, called 'fist' and 'second', in that fixed order.

### Containers - Sequences(arrays/linked lists): ordered collections

* Vector
  - A dynamic array, like C array, with the ability to resize itself automatically when inserting or erasing an object.
  
* List
  - A doubly linked list; elements are not stored in contiguous memory.
  
* SList
  - A Siingly linked list; elements are not stored in contiguous memory.
  
* Deque
  - Double ended queue.
  
### Containers - Container adaptors

* Queue
  - Provides FIFO(First-In, First-Out) queue interface.
  
* Priority Queue
  - Provides priority queue interface.
  
* Stack
  - Provides LIFO(Last-In, First-Out) stack interface.
  
### Containers - Associative containers: unordered collections

* Set
  - A mathematical set.

* Multiset
  - Same as a set, but allows duplicate elements (mathematical multiset).
  
* Map
  - An associative array; allows mapping from one data item (a key) to another (a value).
  
* Multimap
  - Same as a map, but allows duplicate keys.
  
* Hash Map
  - Similar to a set, multiset, map, or multimap, respectively, but implemented using a hash table; keys are not ordered, but a hash function must exist for the key type.
  
### Containers - Other types of containers

* Bitset
  - Stores series of bits similar to a fixed-sized vector of bools.
  
* Valarray
  - Another array data type, intended for numerical use (especially to represent vectors and matrices).

### Iterators

* The STL implements five different types of iterators. These are *input iterators, output iterators, forward iterators, bidirectional iterators, and random access iterators*.

### Algorithms

* A large number of algorithms to perform activities such as searching and sorting are provided in the STL, each implemented to require a certain level of iterator (and therefore will work on any container that provides an interface by iterators).

### Functions

* The STL includes classes that overload the function call operator. Instances of such classes are called functors or function objects. Functors allow the behavior of the associated function to be parameterized and can be used to keep associated per-functor state information along with the function.

## Reference
* [Wikipedia - Standard Template Library](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Template_Library)