---
title: "[C++] Interacting with text file by using file input/output stream library"
categories: [ C++ ]
updated: false
comments: true
---

## Preface
This post explains how to interact with text files in C++ program. As it is not a standard way to interact with program, it is easy to regard it as totally different from the standard way. However, it is almost same if you know a concept of **stream and buffer** exactly.

## Summary

* `#include <iostream>`
  - Include standard input/output stream library.
* `#include <fstream>`
  - Include file input/output stream library.
* `std::streambuf *filebuf;`
  - Declare stream buffer pointer.
* `filebuf = filestr.rdbuf();`
  - Assign stream buffer pointer which is returned from the member function of file stream object.
* `cin.rdbuf(filebuf);`
  - Link the file stream buffer to standard input stream.
* `cin.eof();`
  - Return boolean value about whether the stream reached EOF(End of File).

## Standard Input/Output Stream

### \#include \<iostream>

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main(){
  std::string str;
  std::cout << "Type a text: ";
  std::cin >> str;
  std::cout << "You just typed: " << str << std::endl;
}
```

---

```text
Type a text: Hello World!
You just typed: Hello
```

---

* If you want to receive input value from console or display text to console, you have to declare `#include <iostream>` in advance.

* `cin` stands for "character input stream". The program does not receive value directly from console.
  - When user types texts on console, it is stored in some place beforehand, which is called **buffer**. And then, `cin`, which is initialized with "standard input stream", gets data from the buffer and give it to program. That is, `cin` is connected to the buffer which is linked to console.

* `cout` is also similar to that. It stands for "character output stream", and also uses stream when the program wants to print texts on the console. Of course, the console uses buffer for output.

* Note that typed sentence using the keyboard is transmitted to the program when the `ENTER` or `RETURN` key is pressed. And the extraction operator (`>>`) considered the `whitespace` as the terminating character, therefore, the console printed only the first word, 'Hello'.

* Then, if I want to use a text file, not an interative console, what do I have to do?

## File Input/Output Stream

### \#include \<fstream\>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <fstream>

int main(){
  std::ifstream filestr;
  filestr.open("test.txt");
  
  std::streambuf *filebuf, *backup;
  backup = std::cin.rdbuf();
  filebuf = filestr.rdbuf();
  std::cin.rdbuf(filebuf);
  
  std::string str;
  while(!std::cin.eof()){
    std::cin >> str;
	std::cout << str << std::endl;
  }
  
  std::cin.rdbuf(backup);
  
  filestr.close();
  
  return 0;
}
```

**test.txt**

```text
Hello World!
```

---

```text
Hello
World!
```

---

* First, you have to include `<fstream>` header file to use file system because the file input/output is not a standard way.
  - `<iostream>` means, "Standard Input/Output Streams Library".
  - `<fstream>` means, "File Input/Output Streams Library".

* `ifstream filestr; filestr.open("test.txt");`
  - As I said an interactive console does not directly interact with program, if you want to use file system, you have to create a stream for file and link it to program.
  - Declare input file stream object `filestr` and link it to your local text file `test.txt`.
  
* `streambuf *filebuf, *backup;`
  - Declare stream buffer object pointer `filebuf` and `backup`. `filebuf` is for the file stream which is linked to `test.txt`, and `backup` is for the back-up of standard stream which is already linked between console and program.
  - Actually, the `streambuf` class is declared in the `<streambuf>` header file. But you don't have to worry about that, becuase including `<iostream>` automatically includes also `<ios>`, `<streambuf>`, `<istream>`, `<ostream>`, and `<iosfwd>`.
  
* Member function: `streambuf* rdbuf();`, `streambuf* rdbuf(streambuf* sb);`
  - All stream objects in `<iostream>` and `<fstream>` have member function `rdbuf()` which returns a pointer to the stream buffer object currently associated with the stream.
  - If a parameter is in, the function sets the object pointed by sb(parameter) as the stream buffer associated with the stream.
  - Now, you will be able to understand the three sentences below the declaration of stream buffer pointer.
  
* The program becomes able to interact with file system using `cin` stream!
  - As you connect file stream buffer to `cin` stream, now the program becomes able to interact with file system using `cin` stream.
  - You can get data easily from file using extraction operator(`>>`) just like before!
  
* Member function: `bool eof()`
  - Stream objects also has member function `eof()` which returns boolean value about whether the stream reached to the end of file.
  - The interactive console can wait for user's input if the program needs more input values. But the file cannot. Then the program would be faced with infinite waiting.
  - To avoid that, you have to use `eof()` function properly. One of the very simple example is using `eof()` in the condition of while loop, which is on my example code.
  
* How to write in text file?
  - `cout` is also a stream object. That is, `cout` also has member function that returns buffer pointer. Therefore, writing in text file is exactly same as reading data from text file.

### Make code simple

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main(){
  string str;
  cout << "Type a text: ";
  cin >> str;
  cout << "You just typed: " << str << endl;
}
```

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <fstream>

int main(){
  ifstream filestr;
  filestr.open("test.txt");
  
  streambuf *filebuf, *backup;
  backup = cin.rdbuf();
  filebuf = filestr.rdbuf();
  cin.rdbuf(filebuf);
  
  string str;
  while(!cin.eof()){
    cin >> str;
	cout << str << endl;
  }
  
  cin.rdbuf(backup);
  
  filestr.close();
  
  return 0;
}
```

* Using `using namespace std;` makes coding convenient; you can just declare like `cout` or `cin`.

* These two sample codes operate exactly same as the upper original codes.

## Reference

* [cplusplus.com - \<iostream>](https://www.cplusplus.com/reference/iostream/)
* [cplusplus.com - \<fstream>](https://www.cplusplus.com/reference/fstream/)