---
title: "[C++] Pass-By-Value and Pass-By-Reference"
categories: [ C++ ]
comments: true
---

## Preface
There were some confusing parts when I studied Pass-By-Value and Pass-By-Reference deeply. I'm going to write about the necessity of Pass-By-Reference and the advantage of using const reference variable on arguments.

## Summary

* Pass-By-Value
  - `int function(int x, int y){ ... }`
  - The function receives parameters which are the copy of original values.
* Pass-By-Reference
  - `int function(int &x, int &y){ ... }`
  - The function receives parameters which are the aliases of original variables.
  - This is much more memory saving that Pass-By-Value.
* Const reference parameters
  - `int function(int const &x, int const &y){ ... }`
  - `const` keyword allows you to save memory in safety.

## Pass-By-Value and Pass-By-Reference

### Pass-By-Value

```cpp
int sum(int x, int y) {
  return x + y;
}

void main(){
  int a = 10;
  int b = 5;
  int c = sum(a, b);	// c = 15
}
```

* Normal variables were used when we pass parameters to a function.

* As the variables passed into the `sum` are out of scope, those cannot be modified in the body of `sum`.

### Pass-By-Reference

```cpp
void swap(int &x, int &y) {
  int temp = x;
  x = y;
  y = temp;
}

void main(){
  int a = 10;
  int b = 5;
  swap(a, b);	// a = 5, b = 10
}
```

* In this case, `swap` takes over the parameters as references.

* Now the function can modify the value of the arguements by using the reference passed in.

* If you are trying to manipulate the variable which locates in out of the scope, you should pass the parameters by reference.

## Const reference variable

### Const

```cpp
int number = 10;
number = 5;

int const index = 10;
// Compile error
// index = 5;
```

* To use `const` keyword on definition of variable tells the compiler that the variable will stay at the initialized value through out the program.

### The advantage of using reference parameters

```cpp
int average(int x, int y){
  return (x + y) / 2;
}

int average_ref(int &x, int &y){
  return (x + y) / 2;
}

void main(){
  int a = 6;
  int b = 8;
  int avg = average(a, b);		// avg = 7
  int avg_ref = average_ref(a, b);	// avg_ref = 7
}
```

* Those three functions draw same results. Nevertheless, why I treat about this is on the **computational cost**.

* The `average` function gets parameters by value. That is, when the function is being called, the copy of parameters is created.

* Besides, the `average_ref` function gets parameters by references. That is, when the function is being called, just the aliases of parameters are created.

* Suppose that the parameters have big data, such as long string or object. Copying the value of parameters might be a burden on memory. Just making reference of parameters would relieve a burden.

### But, it might be dangerous!

```cpp
int average_ref(int &x, int &y){
  // Compiler does not throw error!
  x = 10;
  return (x + y) / 2;
}

int average_const(int const &x, int const &y){
  // Compile error
  // x = 10;
  return (x + y) / 2;
}

void main(){
  int a = 6;
  int b = 8;
  int avg_ref = average_ref(a, b);	// avg_ref = 9
  int avg_con = average_const(a, b);	// avg_con = 7
}
```

* Pass-By-Reference allows function to manipulate the original data.

* If you don't have to change the original value and don't want to let you and your function change it, add `const` keyword on parameters. Compiler will throw an error when you or function are trying to modify the references.

* `const` keyword allows you to save memory in safety.

## Reference
* [Codecademy C++ Lecture](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-c-plus-plus)