---
title: TIL_200930
categories: [ TIL ]
---
# 30 Sep 2020

## Today I Learned

### C++

* References and Pointers. Difference between ***Call-By-Reference*** and ***Call-By-Value***. When function calls arguments by reference, program can manipulate argument directly. By value, program can just get value from arguments and manipulating does not affect on original memory.

* I solved some algorithm problems on leetcode using C++ STL libraries. I used vector, hash map(unordered_map), stack.

* I solved problem with brute-force algorithm first, but when I used hash table, it operated much more faster.

* I'm going to post about C++ STL libraries after studying in detail whenever I meet some techniques for the first time.

### Github page

My github pages had not worked for few days. Troubleshooting messages were on my gmail, but the content was very poor. I had to find problem myself, and when I eliminated some plugins(jekyll-seo-tag, jekyll-feed), it worked again. But I'm no sure that those plugins are not supported by github... Anyway, deploying my customized jekyll page on github was so eventful..

## Today I Posted

* Git posting makes me exhausted. It's really hard for me ;(
* But, exciting to learn git is also an undeniable fact. Posting about Git is a time-consuming, but definitely worthwhile.
  - [[GIT] How to interact with remote repository with Git]({% post_url /GIT/2020-09-29-GIT %})

---

## Tomorrow I'll learn
* Arranging concept and syntax of C++, and studing about C++ STL libraries and algorithm techniques.
* Solving the problems on leetcode
* Studing Git's branch system