---
title: "What is Creative Commons License(CCL) and Copyright?"
categories: [ TECH ]
updated: 20-10-03
comments: true
---

## Preface

When you write something in the Internet, there's a very important thing you need to keep in mind: **Copyright**. This is even really crucial when you read article to quote it. But, not all the contents in the Internet world prohibited to be quoted. That is why we have to know about copyright and look for specified license on the website before quoting.

## Copyright & Creative Commons license

### Copyright

> **Copyright** is a type of intellectual property that gives its owner the exclusive right to make copies of a creative work, usually for a limited time.
> 
> [From Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright)

### Creative Commons license(CCL)

> A **Creative Commons (CC) license** is one of several public copyright licenses that enable the free distribution of an otherwise copyrighted work.
>
> [From Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license)

* A CC license has been widely used for decades in the Internet owing to the convenience of specifying the copyright.

* It is used when an author wants to give other people the right to **share, use, and build upon** a work that they have created. 

* A CC license provides flexibility to an author and allows them to protect their work as much as they want by clarifying the license.
  - For example, they might choose to allow only non-commercial uses of a given work.

## Type of CC licenses.

### License Spectrum

{% include image.html url="/assets/image/CC_spectrum.png" description="Creative Commons licence spectrum" size="small" source="Wikipedia - CCL" source_url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license" %}

* The licences are widespreaded along the vertical axis. The higher position on the spectrum, correspondingly the more open to their contents.

### Attribution[BY]

{% include image.html url="/assets/image/CC_BY.png" description="Creative Commons licence: BY" size="xs-small" source="Wikipedia - CCL" source_url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license" %}

* Licensees may copy, distribute, display and perform the work and make derivative works and remixes based on it **only if they give the author or licensor the creidts (attribution) in the manner specified by these**.

* Since version 2.0, all Creative Commons licenses require attribution to the creator and include the BY element.

### Share-alike[SA]

{% include image.html url="/assets/image/CC_SA.png" description="Creative Commons licence: SA" size="xs-small" source="Wikipedia - CCL" source_url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license" %}

* Licensees may distribute derivative works **only under a license identical("not more restrictive") to the license that governs the original work**.

* Without share-alike, derivative works might be sublicensed with compatible but more restrictive license clauses, e.g. CC BY to CC BY-NC.

### Non-commercial[NC]

{% include image.html url="/assets/image/CC_NC.png" description="Creative Commons licence: NC" size="xs-small" source="Wikipedia - CCL" source_url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license" %}

* Licensees may copy, distribute, display, and perform the work and make derivative works and remixes based on it **only for non-commercial purposes**.

### No Derivative Works[ND]

{% include image.html url="/assets/image/CC_ND.png" description="Creative Commons licence: ND" size="xs-small" source="Wikipedia - CCL" source_url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license" %}

* Licenses may copy, distribute, display and perform **only verbatim copies of the work, not derivative works and remixes based on it**.

* Since version 4.0, derivative works are allowed but must not be shared.

### Zero / Public Domain[PD]

{% include image.html url="/assets/image/CC_CC0.png" description="Creative Commons licence: CC0" size="xs-small" source="Wikipedia - CCL" source_url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license" %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/image/CC_PD.png" description="Creative Commons licence: PD" size="xs-small" source="Wikipedia - CCL" source_url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license" %}

* These types of copyright are for relinquishing copyright and releasing material into the public domain.

## How to signify the attribution of original author.

### TASL: *title -- author -- source[web link] -- CC license*

* The attribution must be given to **the best of one's ability using the information available**.

* Creative commons suggests the mnemonic "TASL".
  - TASL: *title -- author -- source[web link] -- CC license*

## Reference

* [Wikipedia - Copyright](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright)

* [Wikipedia - Creative Commons license](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons_license)




